Adding api documentation for new interpolating accessors in toolkit. (#1290)
timescale/docs: api/interpolated_duration_in.md

---
api_name: interpolated_duration_in()

> excerpt: Calculate the total time spent in a given state from values in a state aggregate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: Calculate the total time spent in a given state, interpolating values at interval boundaries if they don't exist
```
(suggestion, non-blocking) trying to distinguish this from `duration_in`

license: community
toolkit: true
experimental: true
topic: hyperfunctions
tags: [hyperfunctions, duration, state, state aggregates, interpolated]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: true
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'frequency analysis'
hyperfunction_subfamily: StateAgg
hyperfunction_type: accessor
---

import Experimental from 'versionContent/_partials/_experimental.mdx';

# interpolated_duration_in()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>

> Use this function to report the total duration for a given state in a [state aggregate][state_agg]. This function will work across multiple state aggregates formed by grouping sets of points by time. It does this by interpolating the appropriate boundary points between the aggregates and using that to fill in the missing range.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use this function to report the total duration for a given state in a 
[state aggregate][state_agg]. This function works across multiple state 
aggregates formed by grouping sets of points by time. It does this by 
interpolating the appropriate boundary points between the aggregates 
and using that to fill in the missing range.
```

> Use this function to report the total duration for a given state in a [state aggregate][state_agg]. This function will work across multiple state aggregates formed by grouping sets of points by time. It does this by interpolating the appropriate boundary points between the aggregates and using that to fill in the missing range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculate the total duration in a given state from a [state aggregate][state_agg].
Unlike [`duration_in`][duration_in], you can use this function across multiple state
aggregates that cover different time buckets. Any missing values at the time bucket
boundaries are interpolated.
```

```SQL
interpolated_duration_in(
    state TEXT,
    tws StateAgg,
    start TIMESTAMPTZ,
    interval INTERVAL,
    prev StateAgg,
    next StateAgg
) RETURNS DOUBLE PRECISION
```

<Experimental />

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`state`|`TEXT`|State to query|
|`aggregate`|`StateAgg`|Previously created state_agg aggregate|
|`start`|`TIMESTAMPTZ`|The start of the interval which this function should cover (if there is a preceeding point)|
|`interval`|`INTERVAL`|The length of the interval|

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|

> |`prev`|`StateAgg`|The StateAgg from the interval prior to this, used to interpolate the value at `start`. If NULL, the first timestamp in `aggregate` will be used as the start of the interval.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`prev`|`StateAgg`|The `StateAgg` from the prior interval, used to interpolate the value at `start`. If `NULL`, the first timestamp in `aggregate` will be used as the start of the interval.|
```

## Sample usage
This example creates a simple test table:
```sql
SET timezone TO 'UTC';
CREATE TABLE states(time TIMESTAMPTZ, state TEXT);
INSERT INTO states VALUES
  ('1-1-2020 10:00', 'starting'),
  ('1-1-2020 10:30', 'running'),
  ('1-2-2020 16:00', 'error'),
  ('1-3-2020 18:30', 'starting'),
  ('1-3-2020 19:30', 'running'),
  ('1-4-2020 12:00', 'stopping');
```

You can query this table for the time spent in the running state, like this:
```sql
SELECT 
  time,
  toolkit_experimental.interpolated_duration_in(
    'running',
    agg,
    time,
    '1 day',
    LAG(agg) OVER (ORDER BY time),
    LEAD(agg) OVER (ORDER BY time)
) FROM (
  SELECT
    time_bucket('1 day', time) as time,
    toolkit_experimental.state_agg(time, state) as agg
  FROM
    states
  GROUP BY time_bucket('1 day', time)
) s;
```

Which gives the result:
```sql
          time          | interpolated_duration_in 
------------------------+--------------------------
 2020-01-01 00:00:00+00 | 13:30:00
 2020-01-02 00:00:00+00 | 16:00:00
 2020-01-03 00:00:00+00 | 04:30:00
 2020-01-04 00:00:00+00 | 12:00:00
```

If you prefer to see the result in seconds, [`EXTRACT`][extract] the epoch from
the returned result.

> [extract]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-datetime.html#FUNCTIONS-DATETIME-EXTRACT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[duration_in]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/frequency-analysis/duration_in/
[extract]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-datetime.html#FUNCTIONS-DATETIME-EXTRACT
```
